## 2006年应用文 - 信函（慈善捐款）

Dear Sir or Madam,
    Moved by the noble cause of Project Hope and encouraged by what has been achieved so far, I would like to contribute my bit to the project by offering financial aid to a child in a remote area of your province.
    I would be very grateful if you could help me seek out a girl who has just started schooling but whose family cannot afford her education. My plan is to pay for her tuition on an annual basis until she finishes her secondary education. I would like to remit my donation directly to a bank account opened by her family in her local area.
                                                                                    Yours truly,
                                                                                    Li Ming

## 2010年应用文 - 告示（志愿者招募）

                                        Notice
                                                                    January 9, 2010
    Volunteers are needed for the International Conference on Globalization to be held on this campus in early July. Basic requirements are familiarity with the theme of the conference and proficiency in English. Other requirements include good interpersonal communication abilities, familiarity with our city's tourist attractions and its history, proper manners, and a strong sense of responsibility. Preference will be given to those experienced in international conferences or other similar activities.
    Call 86754321 or email postgr@ccc.edu.cn for an application and for information on the interview. Phone and email enquires are encouraged; no visits please.
                                                                    Postgraduate Association

## 2010年应用文 - 信函（文化交流）

Dear Bob,
    I have just arrived at my home from the airport. As I sit down at my desk, I just want to write a letter to you to thank you for your warm reception in the cultural exchange program. You and your family left a deep impression upon me. Indeed, the program is one of the most wonderful memories in my life.
    I remember you mentioned wanting to travel in China. Well, if you come to China, you will be warmlu welcomed, and it will be my pleasure to be your guide here. If you would like, send me a list beforehand of the places you would like to visit.
    Please give my best regards to your family.
                                                                                Sincerely yours,
                                                                                Zhang Wei

## 2021年应用文 - 信函（电影推荐）

Dear Michael,
    As one of your closest friends, I'm writing the letter in order to recommend one of my favourite movies to you - Around the World in Eighty Days.
    The Primary factors for my recommendation are as follows. For one thing, This is a science fiction movie which tells us an exciting story about an English gentleman, Mr. Phileas Fogg, who makes a bet with his clubmates and managers that he can travel around the world in eighty days. For another, it gives us a vivid decription of the many difficulties and incidents which happen on his journey.
    Hope you watch and enjoy the movie. Looking forward to your reply.
                                                                                Yours,
                                                                                Li Ming

## 2012年应用文 - 建议信（留学生来访）

Dear friends,
    On behalf of the Students' Union of Beijing Foreign Studies University, I would like to extend our heartfelt welcome to all the overseas students who will study in our university.
    It is my great pleasure to offer you several practical suggestions. In the first place, life in the prestigious university is perhaps not as easy as you have expected. You may be tightly bound by daily classes, abundant homework and frequent exams. Thus, be prepared for the hectic life here. In the second place, in spite of all those burdens, various extracurricular activities such as sports meets, speech contests and social gatherings will still provide ample opportunites to make friends. So, enjoy your life in this esteemed institute!
    All in all, although there is a lot of pressure, the time you spend on our campus will be worthwhile and enhance your whole life. Hope you like here!
                                                                                Yours sincerely,
                                                                                Li Ming

## 2012年应用文 - 投诉信（电子产品投诉）

Dear Sir or Madam,
    I bought an electronic dictionary from your online store on January 1st, but after using it for a short period of time, I found it has some problems.
    To begin with, the battery needs recharging after a mere 2 hours of use. this means that I need to carry my charger with me when I go out for a day. In addition, the buttons on the electronic dictionary are so small that it is nearly impossible to type anything with them. Personallu, I find this to be completely unacceptable.
    Therefore, I would like either to change for another model that works better or a full refund. Your help is greatly appreciated.
                                                                                Yours sincerely,
                                                                                Zhang Wei

## 2013年应用文 - 信函（邀请信）

Dear Professor Smith,
    On behalf of the "Talents" English Speech Contest committee, I'm writing to invite you to be our new judge. As the core of our "Foreign Culture Festival", this school-wide contest is to be held in the Students' Auditorium on May 12(next Sunday). And we believe that you can give our competitors some enlightening comments as both a native-English speaker and a knowledgeable professor. Specifically, the event will start at around 7:00 p.m. and last for 2 hours at most. At the end of it, we will have some hand-made presents for each judge and competitor.
    Once again, We sincerely hope you can be the judge for our competition. Please RSVP before this weekend.
                                                                                Yours sincerely,
                                                                                Li Ming
                                                Chairman of the "Talents" Speech Contest committee

## 2017年应用文 - 信函（答复感谢信）

Dear Prof. Williams,
    I am extremely honored to accept your invitaion to give a presentation to a host of foreign students on Chinese culture.
    Here are the key points of my presentaion. First of all, compared with Westerners, the Chinese people have traditionally paid more attention to the harmonious relationship between human beings and nature. "Nature and Man are one" is a familier statement in traditional Chinese idology. In addition, in Chinese traditional thought, much emphasis is laid upon moral cultivation, the refinement of temper, and the spiritual enlightment on the part of individual rather than upon logical reasoning.
    My appreciation to you for your invitation is beyond words. I am looking forward to hearing from you soon.
                                                                                Yours sincerely,
                                                                                Li Ming

## 2018年应用文 - 道歉信（旅行计划）

Dear Professor Smith,
    I am looking forward to my travel to the United States and visiting you in Harvard University.
    Unfortunately, I have recently been diagnosed with a serious ear infection which will require surgery on the same day as my departure. I am sorry to say that I will therefore not able to make the traval plan. If possible, I would like to postpone the travel plan to another day later in the year. I promise that such a situation does not usually happen, and apologize for any inconvenience this may cause you.
    Please excuse me for not being able to inform you of my situation sooner. Your prompt attention to my suggestion would be highly appreciated.
                                                                                Yours sincerely,
                                                                                Li Ming

## 2019年应用文 - 答复信（辩论内容）

Dear Professor Smith,
    It is my great pleasure to plan a debate on the theme of city traffic. My suggested topic is:"Private Cars - A Blessing or a Curse?".
    The primary reasons for my suggestion are as follows. On the one hand, some claim that there are many advantages to possessing a car. It gives a much greater degree of comfort and mobility. On the other hand, others strongly object to owning private cars. They maintain that private cars contribute to traffic congestion so greatly that the advantages gained in comfort and freedom are often cancelled out by the frustration caused by traffic jams.
    The debate has been arranged for December 22 in the Students' Recreational Center. I am looking forward to your reply.
                                                                                Yours sincerely,
                                                                                Li Ming

## 2001年图画作文

When we use the word "love", we do not simply mean an attraction to a person of the opposite sex, which is a very narrow definition of the world. The picture below illustrates the real meaning of love, by stressing the fact that is emotional strength, which can support us no matter how dark the world around us becomes. As a matter of fact, throughout history people of many different cultures have regarded love as the most sublime of human emotions.

Take an example to illustrate the power of love. We should remember how Chinese people of all nationalities responded to the call to help the victims of the deadly earthquake in Sichuan Province in 2008. Although their incomes were low by international standards, people all over the country did not hesitate to donate whatever they could -- be it money or goods -- to help their needy fellow citizens. Furthermore, they did this with no thought of gain or reward.

It is my view that the best way to show love is to help people who are more unfortunate than we are. We should always be ready to give a helping hand to those who are in trouble, no matter whether they are family members or complete strangers. Only by doing so can we help to make the world a better place, for, as the picture shows, the darker the shadows of sorrow become, the more brightly the lamp of love shines.

## 2002年图画作文

The picture vividly depicts a lovely American girl in traditional Chinese costume with a sweet smile on her face. She wears ribbons, necklaces and other accessories that are characteristic of the clothes of a certain Chinese minority group. Undoubtedly, the costume has added oriental charm to her beautiful features.

what the picture conveys goes far beyond merely a new fashion trend. In fact, it carries cultural implications as well. The fact that people from different countries are attracted to the mysterious Chinese culture indicates that to some extent a culture can be accepted, respected, appreciated and shared internationally. In other words, a nation's unique culture can become irresistible, increasing cultural exchange can effectively improve mutual understanding and friendship between countries.

It is my view that national culture should be preserved and cherished as a priceless spiritual treasure. Meanwhile, there are good reasons to advocate internationalized culture, for those ideas from other cultures, though controversial or even absurd at first sight, can in the long run provide a different perspective for us to observe the world. Nevertheless, when we are confronted with a different culture, we should be sensible enough to absorb its virtues and to resist its dark side. Only in this way can we promote cultural development positively and make our world multidimensional, colorfual and vigorous.